# models
I recently acquired an Anycubic Photon Mono M7. This is some light documentation of my journey with the machine, 3D modeling, and SLA printing.

## Setup
<P>Although the M7 comes equipped with everything needed to begin printing, for the tasks I wish to accomplish with this printer I needed to start things off with an important modification. The release film (the space on the printer where resin is cured in layers) that the printer comes with is an ACF film. This film enables high speed printing, which I simply do not care about. PFA/nFEP films enable higher definition printing and more fine tuning, so I fitted a new nFEP release film.</P>

## Dialing in the settings
<P>Tuning a resin printer, though very different from the occasional FDM printing I have done, follows the same basic principles: There are a few key variables that will make or break any print. I knew already that I would have to decrease the lift speed and increase the lift height to account for the extra "stickiness" of the nFEP film, and I found that depending on the resin, exposure time would be the other critical variable. The M7 thankfully comes with a handy test print mode where it prints the same piece at various exposure times. I recruited my partner to help me analyze the results of the prints, as they are a material scientist, and determined the optimal exposure time balancing stability and clarity.</P>

## Major Issue #1
<P>The resin stinks to high heaven. It's impossibly smelly, and because the resin is cured by UV light, I cannot put it outside. Resin used in these machines is exceptionally toxic, so a solution has to be found.</P>

## First Mission: Stop the Stink
<p>After trying a number of ventilation systems, I have found the most viable solution for my current setup. Using a small but powerful HVAC fan, I have attached the housing for the printer to a makeshift fume hood. It is only partially successful, and requires a more airtight connection to the machine. So I will make one with said machine!</p>
<p>I have never used Blender before, but modeling is a skill I want to become proficient at, so I set about consuming tutorials and practicing. I find it most rewarding to try to get as far as I can without looking up what to do at first, then use videos and forums when I hit roadblocks. I measure the dimensions of the opening in the M7s housing, and create the port model. It takes many hours due to an issue with union operations functioning oddly with duplicated geometry, but I get it done and am satisfied with the results. I learn much from the first model, and though I wish I could have created more complex geometry to smoothly connect the 4in HVAC system to the port, the insert comes together in much less time.</p>

### Printing the port
<p>The first print is a failure. The M7 has delamination detection, but the port sticks together just enough to pass. The port is one solid piece with two identical faces and a recessed groove between them. The first face on this print worked fine, as did the recessed portion. However, the opposite face had delaminated and formed many wavy, liquid resin filled layers. I quickly determined that the thin, partially cured resin of the second face was not rigid enough to maintain its shape when moving through the liquid resin. As such, I added supports instead of printing directly from the print bed, supported the overhang portion, and rotated the print 45 degrees. This effectively eliminated all warping and delamination, leading to a successful second print.</p>

### Printing the insert
<p>Learning from my mistakes printing the port, I fully support the insert when printing. However, due to the size of the insert, a number of new complications arise. Firstly, were I to print this piece solid, it would be far too heavy and use far too much resin. I used a hollowing tool and my printing softwares automatic infill generation, but I will need to further adjust these settings. Though the print was a complete success, I find that the model is still rather heavy, and I suspect that uncured liquid resin is still within the hollows of the connection. This may cause issues as I intend to screw fasteners into this model. Additionally, the support generation script I used placed a support on the connecting tabs that was too close to the rest of the print, causing it to become one piece. It was frustrating to have this problem on one of the more finicky pieces of the print, but I was able to shave it down to size.</p>

### Putting it together
<p>My measuring and scaling all proved quite effective first try, and the parts all fit together and onto their respective systems nicely. However, the tabs I printed proved less than ideal. Though the thickness and length of the tabs was spot on, the overhang needed to be slightly more pronounced, and the tabs needed additional mechanical force to hold themselves in place. Next attempt I will not make the face of the tabs flush with the piece they are supposed to mesh with, and will instead have them be a touch smaller with a slight outward angle. This should prevent the tabs from being forced inwards, which prevents the overhangs from making contact, and will provide tension to keep them more firmly in place. Thankfully, because I made the faces of the insert flush with the faces of the port, with a touch of sanding I was able to pressure fit the insert and remove the tabs entirely.</p>
